Are you looking for generative AI architect questions? If so, this video is for you.

My name is Michael Gibbs, and I'm here with David Lithicum, and today we're going to do a role-play interview on generative AI interview questions, because I know a lot of you are going to be looking for your first generative AI architect job. And in this video, I will be interviewing David Lithicum a little bit about us before we begin, so you know where we're coming from. I have been a network architect and an enterprise architect for over 25 years. David Lithicum has been an architect of all kinds and a chief technology officer for about 35 years. He's an expert on generative AI, and he is the author of our generative AI architect training program. So I'm going to interview the expert here so you get to hear it the way it should be, so you know how to win on these interviews. David, could you describe a recent project that you worked on that included generative AI? What was your role, and what technologies did you use? Yeah, I'm excited to talk about that. That was a project worked on for a large retailer where we created a recommendation engine based on gathering data on people who did not register for the websites. In other words, you go to a website, you start looking around, and based on your behavior, we can discern whether you're a male or a female, demographics, income, any number of things, you know, based on a huge amount of training data that we have from past customers who are basically doing the same pattern. So the idea is, and lots of retailers use this, is we're able to take this engine and recommend things to the customer that they may not have known that they needed. So in other words, we see somebody is, you know, interested in men's clothing, we know that there's a probability that they also may be interested in camping, or hunting sports, things like that. Your ability to kind of test it and see if that's something that they're looking to do, then based on that response, your ability to recommend other things. And so the engine that we created was able to increase sales by 30%. And this is all without customers having to register, opt into technology, this is just about them using the site and our ability to upsell them just kind of based on the behaviors. Other thing before that, you know, I built a generative AI driven supply chain integration system. During COVID, the supply chains were absolutely a mess, we couldn't get anything moving, people realized that they were under automated and under optimized. So I built a generative AI system that would, in essence, provide complete logistics, planning and training, based on where the thing was being built and manufactured versus where it needed to go dealing with the supply chain, including the suppliers for the manufacturers building the product. And looking at very complex parameters that are very difficult to manage normally, and you can consider 10s of 1000s of data points at the same time, and your ability to make decisions based on what those data points are as to the best optimized way to build something to ship something to make sure that the supply suppliers are producing the raw materials that are needed for manufacturing, just the ability to kind of get to soup to nuts in terms of how you manage something from a customer saying I need something to the building, the selling, the shipping, the sales, order entry, all these sorts of things, and where it's a complete automated system, where you're relatively assured, obviously, things go wrong from time to time, but it's able to operate around those things where you're going to be as optimized as you can. And in that case, a manufacturer of tires was able to optimize their supply chain. And it generated another $30 million in revenue just in the quarter in which it was implemented. So those are the two that I've done, done others, but those are the ones I like to talk about. David, really great examples. Plus, I really love that you came back and you talked about the impact of the business. That's great. Thank you. Good experiences there. Well, David, how would you approach data set preparation and preparation for training generative AI models? Well, the core thing is that the more clean and understood that the data is, the better it's going to be used within a generative AI system. Generative AI systems rely on clean and hygienic data. In other words, it's able to provide the information that you need, which is paramount, but the ability to make sure it's in good order and we know what it is and how it's represented. So we're gathering very diverse data sets. In many instances, it could be images and PDF files. It could be customer data, could be inventory data, sales data, all these sorts of things, your ability to gather the data in such a way where it's organized to be presented to the generative AI model, where it's able to learn and train from these data in a very clean way. And this, by the way, is where probably 90% of generative AI projects go off the rails, is they don't spend the time in investing in the existing data sets and understanding the data and getting the metadata correctly, getting the data hygiene in good working order. All these things are fairly easy to implement. They're not overly complex and overly ornerous processes. But it's figuring out where everything's coming from, what it means, and your ability to present it properly to the models that are learning from the data so they can build the knowledge models around the data. So it's the normalization, the augmentation, the ability to reduce dimensionality of the data, the ability to remove some of the complexity, all these sorts of things. The more that you can do that where it's in an understandable state, if you can understand as a human being, then your generative AI system can understand it. So that's really kind of the metrics that I use. Obviously, tools, data hygiene tools, metadata management, data integration systems, all these things kind of come into play. But the core value in this is your ability to get these things right, your ability to make sure the data is in a state where it can be consumed, where it is going to be the source of truth that the engine is built upon. People consider generative AI as some sort of a magic trick where it's able to deal with bad data, and it's able to find bad data, remove bad data. Some of that's in there, but not a lot. So the core thing, if it's garbage in, garbage out with generative AI data, in fact, it's worse because if it's building a knowledge model based on erroneous data or unclean data, things like that, that knowledge model is going to have that issue built into it that's very difficult to remove. So start with clean data, data hygiene's in the way, understand where the data is, how it's consumed. And that's a foundation for generative AI success. David, I love that. You said if the data is going to be the source of truth, it has to be clean. Expert answer there. Thank you. So walk me through how you would design and train a generative adversarial network for image generation. What metrics would you use to evaluate its performance? Yeah, basically, at the end of the day, we're looking at core parameters that are able to teach it how to create images from random noise and discriminators that learn to distinguish between things that are real and things that are not real or fake. So the process basically loops through it. So the idea being we're going to get it wrong, going to get it wrong, going to get it wrong, going to get it wrong based on these images that we use. And until we get something that is moving to something that is the desired state. So it continues until the generator becomes proficient at producing the images. And you only do that through practice and trial and error. So the great thing about generative adversarial networks is that it's almost like two robots looking across each other at a conference table. And so they're producing ideas, in this case, images. It can be text. It can be other things as well. And they're putting it up. And the other one is looking at it and verifying it and, in essence, making sure that it's right. And if it's not right, it will reject that image. And so that's where the adversarial comes from. So these robots kind of fight it out until the images are correct into a state that's the desired outcome. The idea of generative AI networks is they're always becoming better at taking the information, always learning how to do things better. And that's an example of it. So if you're designing a generative adversarial network, and by the way, you're normally not involved with that as an architect. You're picking tools and technology, and the engineers are doing this on your behalf. But understanding the concept is that we're picking a particular approach to dealing with this information, such as a GAM. And that the adversarial nature of that gets to a better, more desired outcome, again, based on the information coming in that's in a state enough where it's able to generate the right systems. So it's kind of a fun little thing. If you're picking this technology, you don't see this happening, but
In the background, you'll notice that initially when you come to these conclusions, or basically it creates these images, an image that could be a song, could be text generation, whatever, it's the same sort of processes that are involved. It takes a tremendous long time initially for it to train, learn, and generate the responses for the inference engines. But over time, it becomes more proficient, and that's where it gets almost like human-like characteristics. As we train something, we become smarter as people. The smarter it becomes, the faster it's able to generate the information, the better it's able to generate the information. The idea is we're using this architecture as kind of a check and balance. I like to talk to my clients and tell them it is about two robots sitting across the table, and they're having an argument, but they're really, really smart robots. Whatever they come up with is going to be an answer that's going to be better than the sum of the two decisions that they made, and then iterate that again and again and again before they produce images that are amazing. So that's the power of generative AI. This, by the way, applies to images and text and music generation, video generation. All these sorts of things are available to us. Now, the generative in generative AI is we can generate information and output in any number of ways that we want to do it. So it's not limited just to images, but it's interesting to explore kind of what GAN is as it's related to images, and that's kind of something that's easier for people to visualize. Yeah, and that's well explained, and most people don't really understand that adversarial network because they can't see it, but it's so critical to see both sides of things. So, terrific. David, have you ever had to overcome a situation where your generative AI model suffered from mode collapse, and if so, how did you handle it? Yeah, they all do at some point. So it's when the model repeats itself or fails to show a wide range of diversity in its outputs, and in other words, it's limited. It's getting things wrong. At the end of the day, we can get into why it's getting things wrong, but there's something wrong with the information that is consumed or how it's processing these things from an inference engine, but it has to be fixed. In other words, we're just not getting the outputs that we need. And so in mode collapse, erroneous data, you can call it any number of things. It's just a mechanism, a way to define an error state that it's getting to and the causes it's getting to. So when you fix it, you promote diversity within the data sets. You may change the model structure. There's some tuning capabilities you can put in there, and your ability to go through and continually improve the information and the inference model so it's able to produce things better and, in essence, reduce the impact of mode collapse if not completely eliminated. So diversity of information ultimately is where you get to the better outcomes in this. In other words, our ability to look at a massive amount of data where it's going to have a visualization across the data, where it's able to discern patterns within the data. So if you can't do that, you can't provide the diversity of information and the diversity of outputs of the system, it's not going to get to a state that's going to be usable. The good news with this is that there's tools and technology out there that will fix this for you. So architects typically aren't dealing with this on a day-to-day basis. This is kind of an engineering concern. They should know what it is and how to address it, but as far as the mechanisms to fix it, those aren't necessarily in the domain of the architect, but it is in the domain of the architect to understand how these errors are going to occur and make sure that we're building and architecting a system that's not going to go this way. And if it does, our ability to have an automated fixing or self-healing mechanism to reduce the impact of the mode collapse and remove it directly from the system. Thank you for that. Ethics. You know, so David, in your experience, what are some ethical considerations when working with generative AI, particularly in the context of, say, deep fakes or content generation? That's a great question. You have to remember that generative AI is a bit risky when it comes to ethical concerns just because of the power of the system. So we're able to do things that are very concerning, including generate videos of people who have more than 10, 15 hours of video out there on the open internet, and it's very difficult to discern, if not impossible to discern. So we have a lot of ethical considerations because we know that we can do something. We just need to ask if we should do something, and that's really where ethics comes in. So this information, these knowledge models that we build, is going to have biased information in it. They're all biased to the degree of how it's biased. It's really kind of dependent on the training data you use. But it comes down to looking at the harm and impact this is going to happen for human beings. So where there's biased information, deep fakes, your ability to generate erroneous photos, your ability to produce things that are going to influence people more than they should, all these things really kind of come to bear. So it's working with people that understand what the best practices are in terms of ethics. And one of the things I always do on my team when I run an architectural, generative architecture program, is I have an ethics specialist, someone who has a deep understanding in terms of what the best practices are out there and what we should do versus what we can do. We can do a lot of stuff. We can look at the information and biases. For example, when I talked about that recommendation engine that we built, there's lots of things you can do with that data that will help the business and provide it a better inside track in understanding the customer. But there's also ethical concerns in doing that. And you have to kind of make sure that we're not crossing that line. And this is a line we're going to come up to many times. And so my advice is, number one, look at the reality of how you're going to build these systems and impacts that it can have on human beings and society and nature. But also get somebody who understands how to deal with the ethical concerns on your team that you can chat with and we can put an ethics plan together and a bias elimination plan together and we can do bias audits so people can understand if there's any bias in the system at a particular time. And you have to remember that it's not when you're going to go to – it's not if you're going to go to court over this. It's when you're going to go to court. And so that being the case, you always need to build these generative AI systems as if you're explaining it to a judge and a jury. And so we're always thinking about how to practice defensive ethics, doing the things we should put in there so we're not harming human beings, but also the ability to audit and track and log all the various things and decisions that we're making. So if we do have to explain it to a court or a judge or a lawyer or a binding arbitration or even the board of directors, things like that, we're going to be able to do that. So it's much different than traditional systems where you don't necessarily have the power to do a lot of things that are going to cause ethical concerns. In generative AI systems, you do. And I think that an ethics program is going to be bound to all these projects. In fact, I wouldn't work on a generative AI project without some sort of ethics counseling and auditing that occurs within the system. It just removes the risk. A really great response. I also really like the way you said it. Just because you can do something doesn't necessarily mean you should do something. That's something we all need to think about. David, you've been in this world for a little while. What are your thoughts on the current state of generative AI research? And where do you see it heading in the next few years? Yeah, obviously, it's the focus of most people are in the technology world right now. It doesn't matter if you're building operational systems or security systems or platforms. Everybody's looking at how they're going to work and play well with this model. It's unlike anything I've ever seen in my career, and I've been doing this stuff for 30 plus years. So the focus right now in terms of the state of the generative AI system is probably too focused on the tactical tools and technologies, focused on the processors, GPUs, CPUs, focused on some of the engines that are being built, and focused on basically who's turning out what, whether a cloud provider is better at generative AI than the other cloud provider, which is fine, but it's not something we can do longer term. So longer term, we need to focus on how this technology is going to evolve in a couple of years, and where is it going to be, and where does the business need to be in terms of consuming that technology. So it's less thinking about the cool tools and the processors and the use cases for generative AI that are out of this world in terms of fun stuff to think about, but the ability to look at how we're going to find the business applications so we're getting things planned, we're getting things processed to make sure that we're going to build something and that's going to be of value to the business in one year, two years down the line. So it's not focused on the shiny objects, it's focused on the real world benefits of this stuff. And I think utilization in the use cases of generative AI for most businesses is going to be very tactically oriented. They're going to build smaller language models.
and rather than large language models, it's going to be dealing with strategic uses of the technology to differentiate the business and really kind of create the innovative differentiators within the marketplace. For example, the two that I mentioned, the recommendation engine, the supply chain integration system, intelligent supply chain management would be instances of that. But the ability to automate manufacturing, the ability to have a common knowledge mechanism across robotics within a factory, the ability to put intelligence at the edge so we're able to manage oil platforms in ways that are going to be safer and more productive. And so all these things should be put on the radar screen right now in terms of how we're going to use the technology and the tactical uses of the technology. I think we have a tendency to be too focused on the large language models that are out there and what they're able to do, and those are going to be important, and we're going to use utilities out of those, and their accessible APIs are going to be part of the process. But the bigger question, which people aren't answering now, is what this technology means to our particular business and what we're going to use it on. So you go to meetings where they have a generative AI steering committee for a large company, they're just reviewing the cool stuff. They're talking about the releases of the next coolest LLM. They're talking about the different cloud providers and how they're approaching generative AI and not necessarily the core technologies that they're looking to build. So the focus should be, and my focus is on, where that technology is going to be in two or three years and what is going to be the relative value and meaning to the business. The thing is, if we're going to be generative AI architects or any kind of architect, we have to have that in sight. So it's probably too much focus on the things that really aren't going to matter in a few years and not enough focus on the tactical uses of the technology for the particular business domain. And I think that's a harder and not as fun problem to address. And I think that that's where I focus and that's where I think businesses should focus on where this stuff is going. So how we're going to use it, how we're going to employ it, and kind of watch that the shiny objects are not necessarily the distraction that they are right now. And David, you know, excellent. You know, it's where the tech is going and what that tech can do for the business. I'm in complete agree with you. Not the speed, the feed, or whatever the coolest in-vogue tech is. Thank you for that. You're welcome. David, could you discuss a time when you optimized a generative AI model for better efficiency or performance? What steps did you take? Yeah, the best one would be the recommendation engine that I built because if they don't operate at speed, then they're not useful because people aren't going to hang around for a website if it keeps going away for 5, 10 seconds at a time. So in tuning these models for performance and optimizing these models to provide better knowledge management, better predictive management, better inference responses, things like that, it's going to the tools that are able to carry out a few core operations, you know, such as residual connections, your ability to make sure those are normalized, the ability to look at progressive growing and normalization techniques of the data. So in other words, if I'm building this knowledge model, making sure that I'm building it for a good reason. In other words, we're adding true knowledge. We're not adding redundant information. We're not overtraining the model. We're not training it on things that it doesn't need to understand. And you remember, most of these things, as we talked about, are going to be purpose-built. They're there for a particular business case. They don't need to be something that's going to learn from everything that exists on the Internet. They just need to learn about their particular domain and the decisions that they need to make. So it's looking at what the model is currently doing and kind of asking the question, does it really need to do this? And if it doesn't, then that functionality, that knowledge should be removed from the system. It shouldn't worry about processing that stuff. Looking at how it's going to grow and how it's going to perform in terms of model performance over time, but also how it's going to become better and more approved at the time. So when you optimize a generative AI model, you're going to be constantly improving in terms of how it's going to come up with answers and how it's going to manage information. So it's always asking the question. Good news is, where these things used to be done by hand, someone would have to write an application or a script to do this stuff. Now there's tooling that's able to do this on your behalf. So optimization of the generative AI model, depending on what model instance you're running, the tool that you're using, the brand, the type, version, all those sorts of things, are going to have the optimization tools that are connected to it. So a lot of this stuff isn't necessarily in the domain of the architect, and a lot of this stuff probably isn't in the domain of the engineer. We just need to understand that these things have to occur and ensuring that we have the right tools that are carrying these things out. And also this is something that's going to change a great deal in the next couple of years. You have to keep that in mind. So the way in which we optimize these models now, which just got into it with the advent of generative AI and learning as we're going with those, is going to be very different in two years. So my recommendation, as well as doing residual connection, progressive growing, normalization, all this stuff, which is fundamental to doing this, is that we're able to pick the right tools, technology, and approaches that are going to assist us in making this happen. That doesn't mean we're focused just on the tools. That means we're focused on what needs to be done, and the domain of tools out there that can help us get this done, and our ability to bind it to those tools, putting the complexity of the optimization of the generative AI model into the domain of the tool, versus it being something that a human being has to go after every few weeks. That never scales because you can't get consistency there, repeatability there. It's something that's not going to be optimized unto itself. So if you're optimizing a generative AI model, it's about understanding what you need to do to make that model better from a design perspective, from an architecture perspective, and beyond that, it's leveraging the right technology so this optimization is done in an automagical way behind the scenes, so it's really just kind of part of the infrastructure. Sounds great, David. David, how comfortable are you deploying AI models in production? Could you talk about any experience you have with, say, MLOps practices? Yeah, the great thing about deploying AI models, specifically generative AI models into production systems, is they follow the same sort of processes, in many instances the same tooling, as traditional DevSecOps, DevOps. So continuous integration, continuous deployment, your ability to version the models out there, your ability to lock the configuration in in terms of the hardware, software, cloud configuration that you're leveraging. All those toolings basically have followed the generative AI system, and so they're able to provide the same automation. So it's good news, bad news. The good news is we don't have to hire lots of new people who are going to do the CICD integration and model monitoring and tuning and versioning out there, and it's going to be very similar, if not the same tooling, but you need to bind it into the DevOps tool chain. You need to bind it to the particular applications that use these models. You need to version these models in much the same way, and they're going to require a little bit different understanding in how we do versioning. It's not just an instance of a database. It's not just an instance of a code tree. It's going to be a complete knowledge model, which is this huge monster in many instances unto itself that we have to lock in in a particular configuration. So we have to have the toolings that are able to make that happen. By the way, this does not mean that you're taking a copy of that knowledge model, putting it off someplace because it's a huge amount of storage to maintain these things, but we are taking a copy of the configuration, the tuning parameters, the model numbers, some of the knowledge data in the system, even the training data. So we understand how to return to that state. Certainly as people start out with generative AI systems, you're going to get to a point where they realize, oh, darn, we made a mistake. They probably won't say, oh, darn. And they're going to have to go back to a previously stable version of it. And so that's the ability to hit the reset button, go back to a different state of training data, a different set of the model instance. And if you've done this versioning and you've done this tracking along the way, that's going to be fairly easy to do, and you're going to protect yourself. You're going to lower the risk of doing the development. I'm finding that people have a tendency not to pay attention to that. So they haven't put these into model versioning techniques, configuration management, all these sorts of things. And they get to a point where they go, oh, darn, we made a mistake, and we built this model using erroneous data that was dirty, for instance, and we're trying to get back to a previous state so we don't have to retrain the entire model and deal with the overhead in doing that. And they can't do that. So an instance where they just made a mistake, they have knowledge models that are built on something that's wrong, and they have to figure out how to undo that stuff after the fact. And those aren't databases. Those aren't code trees. Those are this state of a
Your ability to look at the model versioning technology and work with your particular AI integration vendor, your AI tool provider. So we're always going to get to a state where you use either one AI tool, so normally it's going to be three or four, and how we're going to build these things, and then use them as the sounding board for ways in which we should version their models. You've got to remember they have the relationship with the tool vendors and the technology providers. But at the end of the day, this is about you planning the processes and you putting the talent in place to make sure this stuff is being done. Right now, in about 80% of the generative AI deployments, it's not. Even if they have a very robust DevOps tool chain and they're leveraging the right processes, things like that, and they look great in that, it's not including the generative AI systems yet. And that's going to be hugely dangerous because we may find there's an issue with the model. We have no way of having diagnostics if we can't get back to a previously stable state and figure out the differences between the two. So it's a very small investment that should be made within your deployment system that will save you millions of dollars, I think, at the end of the day. So it's something people should do right now and look to do it with the right tooling, the right technology. But at the end of the day, it's your planning that makes this happen. Sounds great. So, David, what types of generative models have you worked with and in what context have you deployed them? Well, in the recommendation engine, I worked with an image generation model. It was also a content generation model. So I was generating text as well as images, in some cases videos, instructional videos, for people who were leveraging the website. So the retailers, the generative AI model in that instance would generate a custom image, very cool, for a particular person based on who they were. So it wasn't just presenting images of camping equipment, as we mentioned before. We realize they're shopping for men's clothing, so therefore there's a 70% chance they may want to look at camping stuff as well. But your ability to generate an image that was specifically targeted at how that person perceives camping, even the area of the country where they are. So if they live in Arizona, it would generate a desert image. If they live in the Northeast, it would generate a forest image. All those sorts of things where it provides that extra bit of motivation to get them to look particularly at the equipment. Also, text of the system. Instead of generating static content, the ability for the generative AI system to generate unique text for the particular individual. So once we know who they are, we know what level they read at, we know what they respond to, we know what key words that are in there, even putting it in a different language if needed. Once we figure out that they're a German speaker, for example, and they think it's very cool. You figure out I'm a German speaker and you start showing the thing in German. So it worked on those. Your ability to generate images and text. The ability to, in the supply chain scenario, your ability to generate logic around and logistics around a certain supply chain. So we're not generating text, we're generating pass through a map, for example. And processes in place. And the ability to kind of stepwise through this stuff in terms of how you build and deploy a particular piece of equipment that you're selling. And the raw materials, good producers, and what they should be doing, all those sorts of things. Obviously, we're generating text to generate the POs and the invoice and the way in which we control the information. But the larger issue is that we're generating a map. We're generating the content. So we're generating, in essence, entities, which may be represented as images and text, but the larger thing is we're generating the plan and how these things are going to work. Ability to spot fraudulent systems and building banks. And obviously, that was where we're inputting data. And your ability to look at checks to spot for patterns that may lead to fraud in building those systems. Looking at real-time images, the ability to identify them, such as security systems are able to look at images of people who are approaching the building, identify who they are and where they come from. In fact, they just had an issue in China where they were able to find a serial killer based on this technology. And ultimately, any sort of thing that's able to get to a state. Remember, the important thing here is that we're building the model. The ability to generate different outputs of the model that facilitate whatever kind of a business outcome you're looking for is a fairly easy step in the process. But your ability to build a knowledge model in such a way where it's going to have this kind of flexibility, the ability to generate this stuff in any way you want to consume it, is going to be where the work needs to occur. So generative AI models that deploy all kinds of different outputs based on the needs of a particular business. But the core model is ultimately using the same steps, the same processes to build the same stuff. Thank you for that. So, David, quality matters. How would you assess the quality of generative samples from a generative model? Well, you can always look at the things like images and text to see if it's something that's acceptable. One of the things that people have used ChatGPT before, when they ask it to write something that's fairly simple, you'll notice that in many cases it's a mile wide and an inch deep. So it just generates lots of content. So your ability to have a logical assessment of something as to whether or not it's going to have value or not is something you need to do. So it's visual inspection, you know, quantitative metrics, domain-specific evaluation criteria that these businesses put in there in terms of what's acceptable, in terms of what the outcome should be. So everything in terms of measuring the accuracy of a generative AI system is going to be determined in the outcome. In other words, the output, excuse me. So one of the things you need to do if you're going to test your quality is create some scenarios where you know what the output should look like. You know what the picture should look like, the map should look like, you're getting to the right answers, and you're able to ask it a number of these questions, and the inference engine puts out the particular data sets that you're looking for, and do so with multiple random ways. Other good news, you can leverage generative AI technology testing tools to test these models to figure out what kind of quality you're getting out of them. They'll provide you with a ranking, and they'll provide you with ways in which you can fix and adapt to the model. All those things are available. But when you look at how these things are tested, it kind of comes down to the way we tested applications in the past. We put stuff in them, and stuff comes out of them. We're trying to make sure the stuff that comes out of them is in the right state, and if it's not, something's wrong with the application, whether we're white box testing or black box testing. Generative AI, a bit more complex, but we're doing the same thing. In other words, we're asking it the questions, we're invoking the APIs, we're providing with the business problem, and in these situations, we have maybe 1,000 different scenarios where we know what the output should be and what kind of answers we should get out of the system. And you look at the generative AI ability to get to those answers. By the way, it's never going to be 100%. These things are going to make mistakes. They're going to be off a bit, things like that, but that's how you tune the system. Also, use testing tools to make this happen. Those are starting to emerge right now. We're starting to see a huge amount of interest in there and how you test these generative AI models so you can look at the quality of output. Also, the ability to leverage these testing tools where the outcome or the results of the test, in this case, quality assurance, goes back to the model so it can iterate itself and improve itself over time, just like we do with human beings. In other words, we're on a factory floor and someone's putting the doorknob on the Cadillac wrong, and it's a repeating pattern, and then we can go back to them saying, you did it wrong, let's put it the right way, and it's fixed. Generative AI models work in the same way. They can be instructed, they can be trained, and they don't seem to take it personally, so I like working with them. Yeah, they're not going to take it too personally. Very good point there, David. David, could you describe a challenging project involving generative models that you've tackled? Yeah, ultimately, the ability to build a fraud detection system for a big government agency was probably one of the most challenging things that I worked on. Number one, the technology was very new. It was just more of an innovative research project at the time. They obviously wanted to invest in it, so there wasn't a lot of technology and talent out there. I had to, in essence, build the approaches to make the thing happen and kind of understand my different architectural parameters going forward using what I knew from the world of cloud computing and enterprise architecture and application architecture, things like that. So it was what I didn't have a lot of things to draw upon. In other words, there weren't a lot of people I could learn from, there weren't a lot of books I could read about this. There was some PhD dissertations, things like that, but it was something that was definitely going to be me figuring this out as we go along. Well, that became the challenge. So we, you know, looking to develop this deep learning gener
So what I did was to make sure that everything was very modular in nature. And so in other words, we could plug in the generative AI tool sets. Again, if we have something better coming along, we're using ETL tools, the ability to deal with data hygiene and the batch processing to load the training models, your ability to deal with model data management in different ways, your ability to bind this into a DevOps tool chain. And that was difficult because it was probably too early. And that was my advice to the client. In other words, we're building something before I think it's going to take off. And if we wait a little longer, then it's something that we can build with better tools and have a better understanding of the market the more we let it mature. Maybe we take a baby step now, build the training data system and the business analytics system, and then we put this on later. That wasn't the case. They wanted it built. And it was built six months. And that was a very aggressive timeline. Didn't know exactly how it was going to be built when I started out. Didn't have a good understanding of how it was going to be done because the tools didn't exist. But we're able to pull it off and pull it off with lots of very talented people around to make it happen. And by the way, that's key to all this, your ability to lead a team and attract a team that's able to take on various components of the system and take on their role and responsibility. So they're doing the data science. They're doing the AI engineering. They're doing the, in this case, it was a deep learning system was bound to a generative AI system. They're doing the model development and management. They're doing the selection of the infrastructure and processors, whether it's going to be on premise or in the cloud, and you're bringing the whole thing together. What makes me happy is that system is still running. It's still viable. It's still working well. Probably needs a refresh in terms of its technology, but I was asked to do something at a certain amount of time. I advised the client as to what they should be doing. So some of that was taken under heart, some of it wasn't, but we forward anyway. We were able to pull it out, and that's probably the most fun I had and also the most challenge that I had in building an AI system, and I've been building them since the 80s. Now, David, it's a great response, and I know exactly what you mean when you're doing something that's too early to be done, but at least you made the point. You talked about making it modular so you could change and adapt it. I love that. I also love that you made something very clear. You told me that it was a team because so many people, when they come and interview for an architect job, they try to act like they can do it themselves, and they can't. It's going to take a team. So I'm glad you're mature enough and have the experience enough to be able to communicate that to me. Thank you. You don't do this stuff on your own. It's a team effort. Absolutely. Now, David, I know we touched a little bit on ethical considerations before, but I want to go there a little more because it's so important with this topic. What ethical considerations are crucial when deploying generative models, and how do you address them? Yeah, it's a great question. I think the ethical consideration that everybody should be concerned with would be the bias and your ability to mitigate it. So all of these models are going to have bias. People always tell me they don't want a bias in their generative AI model in their LLM, and there's no way to get away from it. In other words, if you're using real data, data is going to have a bias, and sometimes it's going to be a bias that you have to mitigate as it comes into the system. And in mitigating the bias, we need to identify it. We need to figure out what part of the model that it exists in and move it out of the model or basically even put counter data in there so we're mitigating the bias. So that's the big one because that's the one that's going to get you in trouble. That's going to have you turning down loans for a certain demographic of people and perhaps not selling in certain parts of the United States because we're not addressing that part of the United States for whatever reason. Your inability to identify and use information in a way that's going to be fair to everybody who uses it. And so the ethical considerations really kind of lie there. If you look at all of the legal cases that have occurred in the last 10 years around utilization of AI, it's around biases. People are impacted and they're damaged because they can't get a loan, they can't buy something, they can't get a procedure done in healthcare. I heard something, the insurance companies were leveraging these systems to pick and choose what treatments people could have, things like that. And when you do that, you need to have some sort of a process that you can document that you're getting through to audit and remove all of the ethical issues that these systems are going to have. And so that's core how you deal with bias. But at the end of the day, your ability to look at what this thing is doing as to whether it's harming people or a group of people is what you need to ask. Things like making sure you have consent with people who are going to be producing in the network, your ability to have copyright issues with people. I noticed that in LLMs that I'm using, my work comes out a lot of times when I ask questions. So making sure you have the legal roles and legal documentation and concepts and consent for all the information you're going to leverage as well. So lots of dimensions kind of come into it. But at the end of the day, are you harming people? Are you going to get yourself in trouble with the law? And are you doing the right things which you can explain to your stakeholders? And I think that's what we need to kind of move through. So the considerations are really that. So people get into these bias frameworks and bias checkers and things like that. That's really not – those things are easy to deploy. You need to have an ethical framework and an ethical set of guidelines that people can follow so we live up to some sort of an ethical standard. That's why I love having an ethics specialist on the team. And the reason why he or she is going to be responsible for ensuring and auditing and making sure the things we do are things that we should do. It's not that we can do it. We can do lots of stuff. We can do deep fakes and we can put out – produce things that are approaching fraudulent marketing campaigns, things like that. But your ability to say, should we do it? In other words, we can, should we? And I think that should answer is really where the bias and ethical standards lie. Great answer with that, David. Thank you for that. David, could you explain the concept of latent space in generative models? Yeah, latent space is really kind of a work area. So it's low dimensional space that we're able to put features and variations in that's able to leverage something that's able to put it into a space for a certain amount of time as we process the system. So it's probably best – people define it differently, but it's best defined as that. So the generative AI model is going to put stuff out there as a temporary storage area, and it's going to process information and handle the information within the space. And it's something I think as an architect you don't have to deal with because it's something that the tool set into itself is going to do on your behalf. But it's good to know that it's there, and it's good if you're talking to a vendor to ask them how they're managing latent space and whether it's persisted or not and how they use it, how does it affect on the processor and things like that. Thank you for that. David, have you implemented conditional generative models? And if so, what techniques did you use for conditioning? Yeah, they're models that generate specific data based on given conditions. So conditional VAE, which is variational autoencoder, that generate image from handwritten systems would be an example of that. So in other words, we're able to look at something that a request is coming into a knowledge model, and it's able to generate the image based on what it knows and how to generate the image. In other words, I'm telling it to generate handwriting that spells out the name Mike. So it has to know a few things. In other words, it has to know how to write Mike from a verbal cue to a written cue, but also needs to know how to write it out in handwriting. So it's able to generate images based on desired digital labels, and it's able to learn to produce images that match the provided conditions, allow the targeted data generation. So what we're saying is, write Mike, and it knows how to spell Mike, and it also knows how to write it out in handwriting. And so in looking at that, it's looking at the conditional classifier attention mechanisms to make sure that's done in a proper way. Again, good news is normally architects don't have to deal with that. It's good to know that it's there and the implementations that are there. All of the models and all the technologies out there are going to do this in a different way. So it pays for you to understand the conceptual understanding of what these things are, but not necessarily how it's carried out in detail, because that's going to be the domain of the particular tool that you leverage. Absolutely. Now, I know you partially answered something like this earlier, but I'm going to dive a little deeper. How do you train?
a generative model effectively that's going to have either limited data or noisy data. Yeah, the best thing is to do things like transfer learning, the ability to augment the data, and even providing some semi-supervised systems in there as well. So, in other words, the great thing about generative AI systems is that they deal with information learning through unsupervised techniques and we don't have to tell it what to do. And so that's why we can take these LLMs and point it at the open internet and then just go out there and read everything out there and discern it through patterns and come up with conclusions and become very smart at the information out there. However, if we have noisy data or some of the data may not be there and need to be backfilled, we have to have some sort of a similar supervised capability where we're backfilling the data. We know if the zip code is missing that we're going to have to take the city and state, look it up, figure out what the zip code is and put it in the data before it's consumed in the generative AI system. The ability to make sure that it's spelling things correctly, the ability to make sure that we don't have a transaction that's wildly out of gauge. We're not charging someone $10,000 for a safety pin, things like that. So your ability to put these kinds of conditions and these kinds of monitoring systems around the consumption of the information is really how you beat this noisy data. That's one way to do it. Another way to do it would be to go back and fix the data, which is my preferred way of doing it, but many businesses can't do that or many instances that will tell me that that's somebody else's data. We can't fix it. So you need to figure out how to do it on the fly. Well, that's the way to do it on the fly. But you should go fix the data. That's your best bet. Sounds great, David, and thank you. Yeah, the better the source of the information, the better the results will be. Right. So what strategies do you use to ensure stability and convergence in training generative models? Yeah, things like normalization, understand the progressive growth in the model, how that's going to be managed, and your ability to deal with adapted learning rate schedules. In other words, when those things are going to be pushed through the model and how often that's going to happen. So you have to remember that these things basically function on external stimulus that occurs on them. So we have to look at the stability of the models based on what needs to be changed in the model. That's why we put things like adaptive learning, diversity-promoting loss function, preventing overfitting, stabilizing training processes, getting into the model's reliability to learning. So there's any number of ways to do that. But at the end of the day, what you're doing is you're trying to make sure that the model can learn in a repeating rate. We have a way in which the model can generate outputs in repeating rates. In other words, if we ask it a question, it's going to generate inferences based on that model. So this is going to be that this particular model is able to learn in any number of ways, and we have stability and the ability to train the model in any number of ways, and we've assured that the stability and reliability is there and how it's going to be trained. Again, good news, bad news. Good news is you need to understand what that is and how it works, ensuring stability, convergence, training of these models. I'm sorry, that's the bad news. The good news is that we have tools and technologies to make this happen. So most of the technology that I deal with in generative AI, this is an automated process that happens behind the scenes. It's good to know what that process is, very much like you're dealing with a database. You know how to add and delete data. You know how to deal with data normalization in a relationship diagramming and foreign keys and primary keys, things like that. And here it's looking at the particular way in which the generative AI model needs to consume information and making sure we're tuning to make sure that's going to be something that's going to work every time, and it's going to provide them with some core capabilities to make sure that it's able to learn at scale, I guess is the best way to put it. Thank you. Well explained. David, if you could discuss the tradeoffs between different generative models such as GANs versus VAEs? Yeah. In other words, the adversarial network, generative adversarial network, it's able to prioritize sample quality. And so in other words, it's, again, the robots that are working across each other in the conference room and their ability to throw something up like we're going to evaluate this piece of data and they say I have an opinion of this piece of data here and I have an opinion of this piece of data they match, it moves on. I have this opinion, I have another opinion, and it doesn't match, then we have to come up with some sort of an arrangement in terms of what's the best outcome. That's why these things are very good at producing information that is right most of the time based on the training data that it has because we're going through this kind of scrutiny. The data is in essence always questioning itself and improving itself moving forward. So, and of course there's VAEs, same size encoding and decoding variations. Most of the stuff in generative AI is going to be the adversarial networking stuff, which is able to deal with sample quality because we want the quality of information to come up. So, and again, these things are going to be handled by whatever tool sets that you're leveraging. So, whether you're open source AI tool sets, something that's in a cloud provider, things like that, all of these things are going to be built in the particular tool that you're leveraging. So, you're not even going to know what the mechanism behind the scenes to make it happen, but these are good questions to ask the vendors of the generative AI solutions in terms of how they handle that and they should be able to explain it. In other words, how does your GAN work relative to the other GANs in the marketplace? And, you know, what does your VAE do in terms of encoding and decoding systems? How does it run through the process? All those sorts of things. So, when you look at something like this in terms of architecture, it's good to understand that they're there. I kind of look at this as textbook learning. In other words, you have to understand it to have a discussion, but you don't want to lay too much in this sort of a detailed system because it can get you down in the weeds and lots of the stuff. So, what you need to know that this is handled by the technology, you'll be able to ask the questions in terms of how it's handled, and that gets you to the productive end state or able to look at the different generative AI models and use whichever one are going to be most applicable for a problem space. That sounds good. Thank you. We discussed bias a little bit before, but I'm going to ask a little more. How would you mitigate biases in generative models, especially in, say, sensitive domains like healthcare or finance? The big thing is diversity of training data. In other words, you're getting the right data into the system and even understanding if there's biases within that data as it's being trained. So, what I would do is understand if there's any bias in the data before it's consumed in the model. And if there is bias in the data, maybe this is something that we can change within the data that's being consumed in the system without changing the facts within the system. Maybe there's an error in there, things like that. And if there is an innate bias, it's your ability to come up and explain it. By the way, all biases aren't bad. It may have a bias against people who have felony convictions to get background checks for firearms and things like that. That's a bias. In other words, we have a FBI database that's going to tell people you can't own a weapon because you're a convicted felon. However, there's biases that are not unintended and erroneous in nature, which need to be spotted. So, the core thing here in mitigating bias is really to externalize any biases that may exist within the data and may exist within the knowledge model. So, we know they exist. We know how to manage them. And also, we can identify them either to remove them or manage their impact. In some cases, this is going to be a discussion with the board of directors that we've gone through the knowledge model. And we have this particular bias, which is innate to the model. Is this something that's acceptable? Talk to the lawyers when the parameter is something. Is it going to get us in trouble? And then we have to make decisions on how to do it. But the big thing is knowing what it is. In other words, not having an unexpected consequence where suddenly we realize that it's doing something that's discriminatory. And that is not necessarily something that's legal, and we end up getting fined. So, your ability to externalize that information, understand that those biases exist, and manage those on the behalf of the system is kind of how you mitigate this whole stuff. So, understanding, learning, figuring out how it works, and then making decisions around how they should be managed. Sounds great. Do you have any experience working with text generation using jargon models? Yeah, and it's using an RNN or Recurrent Neural Network, transformer models. We already talked about an adversarial network and the ability to do dialogue generation within the system. So, ultimately, when using these models and generating text, whether you're generating a song or generating a thank you note or generating a paper, you're looking to train the model to create net new text based on patterns that it learned
from existing text. This is why people who ask chat GDP to write an article for them aren't necessarily committing plagiarism because it doesn't exist anywhere else. It's unique to them, but it's learned that information from past text models that it's consumed. So great thing about generative AI and probably the most powerful thing about the concept in general. So it's able to learn from the patterns in lots of different ways and learn from videos and audio and written text and books and stuff like that. I know that for sure. And its ability to generate text based on the system, and it looks at the patterns and basically how it's going to write text, what language it's writing in and generate the text in any format. So all of those things are really kind of foundational to what generative AI systems do. Again, we don't have to know what an RNN is or GAN is for that matter. Just understand that the text is coming from somewhere. We need to understand that as the architects. In other words, it could have some IP in that we have to be concerned about, but it's understanding the patterns of information and it's generating the output that it thinks we need to see from the particular pattern, which is having a dialogue with the chat bot, with the generative AI system, and it's generating whatever text we need in the format we need and getting to the response that we need at the level of detail that we need. Wonderful. Have you explored creative applications beyond traditional data generation using generative models? I think everybody's using LLM to ask it to write a song about themselves, which is probably the most narcissistic thing you can do. But really that's kind of a foundational greatness in the dinner from the technology. We're able to create artistic outcomes based on asking a question and that we can personalize and take to whatever extreme we want. Draw a golden retriever driving a truck down a country road. Okay, we'll make that truck out of the 50s instead of the 70s. Okay, we'll make that truck out of the 20s instead of the 70s. And it's able to draw this and create artistic content based on what it thinks that you need. Well, in looking at the applications there, your ability to, in essence, create stimulus on demand, for example, the recommendation engine I talked about, your ability to write and generate photos, which are, in essence, deep fake-like, and your ability to generate art based on whatever inputs you have that you're dealing with a human being is incredibly powerful because now we have not only the ability to generate custom information to a human being in a way they want to consume it, but we're able to generate visual stimulus as well in a way they want to see it, whether it's a video or a picture or things like that. So it's able to create the artistic benefits of leveraging generative AI and put it to use for a particular business or the ability to even draw a maintenance diagram on the fly for somebody who's maintaining a robot in the system based on the changes that were just made to the software. So instead of having to reprint a new manual based on the changes in the system, we're able to regenerate not only the text, but we're able to generate the images that they need to see how the diagram and get to the engine. So it's amazing the amount of applications that are in that space. And also our ability to generate things that are completely custom and useful to us, which is the power of generative AI and why everybody's into it in the beginning with. It generates what we need. Absolutely. You know, you got me a thought. Maybe I'll have a generate a photo of my cat flying an airplane. Just go ahead. You can upload a picture of your cat and it'll do it. Have to do that. So, David, how would you manage scalability and computational efficiency when working with large scale generative models? Great question, because you have to remember these things are computationally expensive, both from a plan. They use a lot of processor power. They use specialized processors, GPUs, TPUs, any number of things. And I think that the scalability of these systems, the way most people react is to toss money and processors at it. So in other words, if we're especially certainly for leveraging cloud based system, we're just going to allocate faster processors, more processors. We're going to leverage them at scale. We're going to put more memory in the place, more storage. We're going to increase the IO rate, all these sorts of things. That's not the way it works. And you deal with scalability. We're looking to get to the minimum viable systems. In other words, we're looking to get to the most optimized way to provide the performance that we need for the particular use case that we have and provide a technology configuration to provide the performance. And so that's a little bit of an architectural dilemma that people normally don't deal with. They throw money at it. They over provision. They leverage very expensive processors. I understand why they're doing that, because you're always going to be right. In other words, you're always going to have something that's going to work and it's going to perform well, but it may cost you 10 times what it should cost. And that's where we get into trouble as architects. We have to pick the right tool for the job, the right system to set it up. So it's looking at performance metrics. It's looking at performance profiles. It's looking at IO rates. It's looking at network saturation rates. It's looking at storage utilization. It's looking at memory utilization. And, you know, even using things like distributed training frameworks or moving things across multiple processors and doing so in a more efficient way. And there's ways in which you can use CPUs instead of GPUs in doing that, which is awesome. So therefore, GPUs cost a lot of money to run. They use a lot of power. What if we're able to use a cluster of CPUs to do the same thing? In some instances, on some use cases, you can do that. Your ability to have a computational scaling model based on the fact we're leveraging a unique creative use of the framework. Model distillation and hardware accelerators, you know, all the tricks in the book and how we're able to make this stuff happen are increasing the cache rate. And again, moving into a different platform, moving closer to where the applications that are leveraging it because it has some network latency on all the scalability tricks that we played with in traditional systems are really kind of applicable here. The thing that we need to remember, though, is that generative AI systems operate extremely efficient and better in some parallel processing situations. That's why people love using GPUs because that's what GPUs do. However, that comes with a cost. And so we've got to get out of the game of just throwing money and processors and hardware at this stuff. We have to think logically in terms of what is the configuration that we need that's going to provide us with the most optimal way of doing it. And that's a harder problem to solve. And that's something that very few people do when they're building generative AI systems. And it's something I build into the architecture because I think it's probably the single most important thing for you to do because you're limiting the amount of resources, in this case money, that you're going to burn to solve this particular problem. Absolutely. And that money can be invested someplace else in the business. I often wonder if it comes from those of us that worked with 10 megahertz CPUs that would just throw so much compute power because we almost remembered what it was like when nothing worked because we never had power. It's always easy to throw larger processors at it because we have them available and they're not that expensive. But everything adds up fairly quickly. Very quickly. Could you cite a real-world application where generative models have significantly impacted an industry? Yeah, that's a great question. I think the ability to generate information processing within the marketing departments, that's kind of an unsung hero of generative AI. In other words, we talked about the recommendation engine. At the end of the day, that's a very sophisticated marketing engine that's able to sell something. If you remember markets, marketing is your ability to generate demand, which is able to generate more sales. So quietly, all the marketing groups are making well use of generative AI systems. And I say quietly because it's something I don't think people want to advertise. You're not doing a press release that you're building generative AI systems and chatbots into your core engine. But that's something where they're able to determine the viability of the market, your ability to determine what people are thinking based on your scanning social media and using that as training data, your ability to understand logistics, all the things that generative AI can do, but then customize stimulus that's able to produce the most benefit to the business. So they can generate custom images. They can generate custom text. They can generate audio to communicate with people in ways in which they're not going to get turned off because it's AI. So that nuance was always missing from marketing. And people don't like spam. They don't like cold calls. They don't like a lot of the things that the marketing folks move into. Now it's something that can be strategically directed to provide the best benefit for making it happen. And that's changing the game quietly. Obviously, we have supply chain integration. We have Uber that uses its AI system, so we're able to get the best car and the best driver for our particular situation depending on where we are. All those things are being tactically deployed right now, but as far as something that's systemically changing the industry, I think it's quietly the marketing industry. Okay. That's great. David, what role do attention mechanisms play in generative models, and how do they enhance model performance? Well, they facilitate focus.
And ultimately put an eye on something that it should be paying attention to, like the name implies. So in other words, if I'm creating my system that I created to spot fraud, in this case, I'm focusing on checks people are writing and credit cards and even videos of them at an ATM, then I'm focusing on particular things are going to be more meaningful to me than others. Your ability to look at the signature of the check, your ability to look at the quality of the paper, all these sorts of things are going to be more meaningful to me than other attributes within the system. So I'm going to have an intention system that's going to put a spotlight on a particular attribute that I think is going to be important. And it's important to do that. You've got to remember the generative AI systems, if they're not taught different, they treat all data as equal. In other words, there's equal stimulus that come into the system. But just like we do as humans, we want the bank teller to look at the signature to see if there's fraud going on. If they're getting a check, we can ask a generative AI system to focus on that as well. And therefore, the attention is paid in all the parameters, but specifically that. And so that's a good feature to understand, know in terms of how you deal with architecture. Great point. David, how would you ensure the robustness and generalization capability of a generative model across diverse databases? Well, the main thing is doing cross-validation within the system. So making sure the output that we're getting is expected. And if it's not, that it's able to train the problem out of the system. So we're able to do regulations. We're able to put regulations around the data, making sure we're doing adversarial trainings. We're asking the questions. Remember the two robots? They're looking at a piece of information and seeing whether it's valid or not. But it's any number of things. And it's really kind of a data testing methodology at the end of the day. We're taking information that's flowing out of these particular systems, and we're looking at the ability to validate the information as being correct. And we've been doing this for years. Built large databases, and they obviously produce information, business information. When we first use these systems, we put it through a testing cycle. We're going to validate that the information coming out of it is correct and in good state. And the same things work here. We just have more tools and technology able to throw at this that are generative AI specific, even that leverage generative AI themselves. The good news with generative AI systems, if they do make these mistakes, they're able to spot the mistakes. And they're able to, in essence, feed that back into the reiteration of the model and the improvement of the model. So we're leveraging tools and technology to make this happen. It's good to know that we have these processes in place and how we're doing the testing mechanism from an architectural standpoint. But again, the good news is normally these tools have mechanisms that are bound to them that do them on your behalf. Thanks so much for that. So a couple more questions for you. Could you explain the concept of style transfer in generative AI models and its applications? Yeah, it's like using artistic styles of one picture to change the look of another picture. And, you know, I have a, you know, example of this where, you know, I would tell something to write a paragraph, but please use the writing style of David Linthicum. And so I have enough things out there where it's able to figure out what my style is and rewrite the system so it sounds like something that's coming from me or sounds like it's coming, a simulation of what they think I'm going to sound like. Sometimes it's a bit insulting. But the idea is that we're able to fine tune these models, not only generate something we're looking for, but look at a particular style and iterate that style and a new instance of it. So we can say, like, you know, draw a picture of me based on this picture I just uploaded, but make me look as much like the Mona Lisa as I can. It'll generate that. I've done that before. I don't know why people would want to do that, but you can. But there's obviously, you know, different ways of doing it. If people have a style that they use for their company, where they have a format that they want to use or everything looks very similar, they can reiterate that style. They can do any number of things which are going to carry certain patterns from one system to the next. So the great thing there is we're not just having it do something static, but we're having it look at an existing piece of work and denote the patterns within that piece of work, which are going to be more fine-grained, and then restating those fine-grained patterns in some different use case and how we're using it, like David Mona Lisa. There you go. So what methods or techniques would you use for hyperparameter tuning in generative models? Well, ultimately, it's just finding the best setting for the model. It's going to be tuned for the best performance and the best outcome. And so we look at things like learning rates and batch sizes and make sure that the output is occurring in a way at a speed that's going to be useful to us, things like that. And so generative AI systems and models at the end of the day are going to have tunables within them. In other words, things we're able to configure to make them operate better, focus on particular things that we need to do faster and better, focus on running things at a rate that's not going to necessarily cause errors, but it's able to produce and generate the performance that we have. And so this is basically dealing with tunables, very much like a database. And so they're all going to be different, by the way. There's no one approach to tunables with all these various tool sets that are out there. But learn what those configurations are. Learn the best practices for setting these configurations. And you're able to tune the best performance out of these systems. And that's the idea behind them. So we're tuning it for its particular use. In other words, they're all going to do things differently. They're all going to set the performance parameters differently. They're going to deal with I.O. differently. We're setting up that system very much like we tune our automobile to be optimized for the particular configuration and use case that it's doing. Wonderful. David, I just have one final question for you. And then after that, a few things we can talk about. How do you stay updated with the latest advancements and trends in generative AI? That's a great question. I just read as much as I can. So I have a Google alert that's set up for generative AI and generative AI architecture and generative AI and cloud. And I get oodles of information, obviously, coming back these days. But I'm able to suss through it and see which things are probably more advantageous to me understanding. And so that's how I stay up on it. Watching YouTube videos sometimes and certainly taking training courses and reading books would be the way that I do it. But obviously, this stuff is so new now that you're going to find the best opportunities for learning based on content that other people are generating. So I'm always willing to get ideas from other people and how they're thinking about this technology and new ways of doing it. I'm looking at what the vendors are doing and how they're taking the technology. Normally, people's thought processes go beyond it and may attend conferences, participate in online communities on LinkedIn or Reddit, have a number of ways that I do that where I just get a diverse array of information that's coming from different perspectives. I'm able to take this array of information and boil it down into what are substantial in terms of where the industry is going. And that's the game how it's played right now. Now, unfortunately, in a couple of years, we're going to have more books to read. They're going to be more thought out. We're going to have more videos and more training on how this stuff works that we should certainly participate in. But right now, it's a bit of the Wild West and us understanding ocean of information, some of which is not going to be helpful at all, sussing through it and figuring out what are the important bits. David, I agree with you. It reminds me of when we built out the Internet or the main components of the Internet for the enterprise and there was no documentation anywhere and nobody really knew how to get there. So, David, I really want to thank you for sharing your expertise and your knowledge on how to interview for a generative AI architect role. We went through some technical questions, very technical questions, honestly, for a generative AI architect. You got into some engineering questions there a little bit as well, which I think is good because no matter what, it gives our architects for generative AI and our generative AI engineers even people things to think about, not just to pass an interview, but also to think as they're getting their generative AI training or their AI architect training. Do I really understand this? Can I put it into perspective? Can I explain it to an employer simply that the employer can understand that I'm competent? Because at the end of the day, that's what really matters in getting hired. For all of you that are here, we have a generative AI architect program with David Linthicum is the primary author. He's come up with all the wonderful generative AI architect concepts, and it's terrific. Our component to this is Go Cloud Careers is all those other architect-y things, those business documents, those leadership, those sales skills, that executive presence, that emotional intelligence, those presentation skills, those negotiation skills, stakeholder management skills, all the things that are critical to the architect career. We've got some free resources to help you in your architect career. In the description of this video, we have a how
If you've enjoyed this video, please give it a like, subscribe to our channel, and hit the bell to be notified of new videos to assist you in your architect career, whether that be a generative AI architect, a cloud architect, an enterprise architect, or who knows, different kinds of architects coming in the future. Thank you so much for watching, and I look forward to seeing you in another video.